Adding dbt MCP documentation (#7743)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/setup-remote-mcp.md

---
title: "Set Up remote MCP"
sidebar_label: "Set Up remote MCP"
description: "Learn how to set up the remote dbt-mcp server"
id: "setup-remote-mcp"
---

# Set up remote MCP <Lifecycle status="beta" />

The remote server uses an HTTP connection and makes calls to dbt-mcp hosted on the cloud-based dbt platform. 

1. Ensure that you have [AI Features](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/enable-dbt-copilot) turned on.
2. Obtain the following information:

- **dbt Cloud host**: Use this to form the full URL. For example, replace `<host>` here: `https://<host>/api/ai/v1/mcp/`. It may look like: `https://cloud.getdbt.com/api/ai/v1/mcp/`.
- **Production environment ID**: This can be found on the `Orchestration` page of dbt Cloud. Use this to set an `x-dbt-prod-environment-id` header.

> - **Service token**: To fully utilize remote MCP, this needs to be configured for the dbt Semantic Layer by following [this](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl#2-add-a-credential-and-create-service-tokens) guide and have `Developer` permissions. Add this as an `Authorization` header with a value like: `token <token>`. Be sure to replace `<token>` with the value of your token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Token**: Please generate either a personal access token or service token. In terms of permissions, to fully utilize remote MCP, this needs to be configured with Semantic Layer and Developer permissions. 
```
